README.md, before:

# Tiangong LCA Data Platform

[English](./README.md) | [中文](./README_CN.md)

**Tiangong LCA Data Platform** is the world's first **fully open-source** Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) data management platform, offering **completely free** cloud services as well as private deployment options. With Tiangong, you can:

🌐 **Start Using Our Online Platform Right Away**  
Begin your LCA journey now: <a href="https://lca.tiangong.earth" target="_blank">https://lca.tiangong.earth</a>

🐳 **Deploy Privately with Ease**  
Deploy locally using Docker. For detailed instructions, see our <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/docs/deploy/local-deploy" target="_blank">Private Deployment Guide</a>.

## 📖 <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/" target="_blank">Documentation</a>

- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/quick-start" target="_blank">Get Started in 5 Minutes</a>
- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/user-guide" target="_blank">User Guide</a>
- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/faq" target="_blank">FAQ</a>
- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/deloyment" target="_blank">Comprehensive Deployment Options</a>
- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/contributing--development" target="_blank">Contributor Guide</a>

Commit message:

Correct spelling of "Tiangong" to "TianGong" in README files for consistency

README.md, after:

# TianGong LCA Data Platform

[English](./README.md) | [中文](./README_CN.md)

**TianGong LCA Data Platform** is a **fully open-source** Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) data management platform, offering **free** cloud services as well as private deployment options. With TianGong, you can:

🌐 **Start Using Our Online Platform Right Away**  
Begin your LCA journey now: <a href="https://lca.tiangong.earth" target="_blank">https://lca.tiangong.earth</a>

🐳 **Deploy Privately with Ease**  
Deploy locally using Docker. For detailed instructions, see our <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/docs/deploy/local-deploy" target="_blank">Private Deployment Guide</a>.

## 📖 <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/" target="_blank">Documentation</a>

- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/quick-start" target="_blank">Get Started in 5 Minutes</a>
- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/user-guide" target="_blank">User Guide</a>
- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/faq" target="_blank">FAQ</a>
- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/deloyment" target="_blank">Comprehensive Deployment Options</a>
- <a href="https://docs.tiangong.earth/en/docs/category/contributing--development" target="_blank">Contributor Guide</a>
